Welcome back.
We have one last tree that I want to talk about and that is a tri or tree pronunciation here varies
on who you ask.
But let's have a look at what it is a try is a specialized tree used in searching most often with text.
As you can see here and in most cases it can outperform binary search trees hash tables and most other
data structures we've been talking about depending on the type of search you're doing.
And just by looking at this image you might understand what it does tri's allow you to know if a word
or part of a word exists in a body of text.
You see a try has usually an empty root node which is the starting point and from there letters are
added.
You see that it's not a binary tree it can have multiple children.
In this case all most likely have 26 children because there's 26 letters in the alphabet.
The power of the try is when we search for something such as an if we have this dictionary we know right
away that there's two words associated with the word and another name for a try is something called
prefix tree.
It's a tree like data structure which proved to be quite efficient in solving these problems specific
to strings.
You can think of it as auto completion.
Right.
When you search something on Google it knows what you might be searching for or it tries and completes
the word for you.
And this is what it's used for for searching words in a dictionary providing auto suggestions on search
engines or even IP routing.
If I typed in a I know immediately that all the children are related to A and I can print out a tree
and then A-S the benefit of this type of data structure is speed and space.
What do you think the big show of finding a word in the data structure is.
We're not going to go through every single node instead.
All we need to do is find the length of the word.
So the big-O of a try is 0 of length that is the length of the word.
If I'm looking for the word are a sorry.
All I do is look for a then look for our.
Then look for the.
All I'm doing is hitting three notes which are associated with the length of the word.
When it comes to space complexity tries also have a major advantage.
Because we use prefixes such as.
And here is used in different words and same with a.
We don't have to store it multiple times.
It's stored in one location and you have children linking to it because of these prefixes.
You save a lot of space because you don't have to store the word not in use.
You get to avoid storing that extra and.